# Movie-Recommendation-Using-Twitter-Profile-Extraction
Movie Recommendation Systems Using Twitter Profile Extraction with Sentiment Analysis and using tf-idf.
Recommending movies has traditionally been a hard task because movie choice is very personal. Two people who have very similar personalities may have a very different choice of movies. In this project, I tried to build a personalized movie recommendation system using the tweets of a person. To build this system, the first task I had to do was to extract tweets of a user. To do this I used api provided by twitter. Using this api, we can extract up to 3200 tweets of a user at a time. Once I had those tweets, the next important task was data cleaning. I removed all the emoticons, hashtags and links from tweets. At the end of this process, I was left with plain text. The next important task was sentiment analysis. I decided to keep only positive sentiment tweets, as negative sentiment tweets would not help for the task of recommendation. For this, I had two dictionaries, one with positive sentiment tweets and another with negative sentiment tweets. I matched each word in the tweet with the words in the dictionary. At the end of this process, I got an overall positive or negative score of a tweet. The next important task was to assign relative importance to each tweet. Not all tweets are equally important. I used an algorithm called tf-idf (term frequency-inverse document frequency) to assign relative weights to each tweet. I had to prepare a dictionary for movie genres. Each genre of movie has some words which relate to it. For example, romantic genre movies usually have words like love, passion, etc. associated with it. I decided to select 11 genres for the purpose of recommendation. I applied the same tf-idf algorithm on this dictionary as well so that I can get relative weights for each word. The next important part was to create a list of movies. I collected top 500 movies from IMDb database and used binary representation to categorize them into genres. For example, if a movie is an action movie, then it will have a value 1 under column action. All other columns will have value 0.
        	Once I had all the necessary dictionaries, the next part was multiplying the dictionary of tweets by the dictionary of genres. By doing that, we get a score for each genre, for a user. Finally, that array of scores is multiplied by an array of binary representation of movies. In the end, we get scores for each movie. Then we can choose whether we want to show top 10 recommendations, or top 50 recommendations. This is how a personalized movie recommendation system is built.   


